---
layout: post
title: About me
date: 2025-09-15 00:00:00 +0800
description: Haoquan Chen's resume # Add post description (optional)
img: software.jpg # Add image post (optional)
fig-caption: # Add figcaption (optional)
tags: [resume, aboutme]
---
# **陈淏泉 ｜ Haoquan Chen**

Undergraduate Student  
School of Computer Science & Engineering  
Sun Yat-sen University  
Guangzhou, China  510006  
Email: [chenhq79@mail2.sysu.edu.cn](chenhq79@mail2.sysu.edu.cn)  
Github:[Nickchen-PUSH](https://github.com/Nickchen-PUSH)  

---

## **About:**

Haoquan is a highly motivated Computer Science undergraduate mentored by Dr. [Xianwei Zhang](https://xianweiz.github.io). He is a member of the Student Cluster Competition team and is seeking opportunities to apply his technical skills, deepen knowledge in challenging environments, and contribute to innovative projects.

## **Education:**

- Undergraduate student  
  Computer Science and Technology  
  Sun Yat-Sen University, Guangzhou, China  
  Expected Graduation: June, 2027  

## **Publications:**

- **coMtainer: Compilation-assisted HPC Container Images with Enhanced Adaptability**
  - Y. Gu, **H. Chen**, X. Chen, J. Du, Z. Chen, N. Xiao, X. Zhang, Y. Lu. *SC'2025* (CCF-A)
  - Introduced **coMtainer**, a compilation-assisted image transformation framework that embeds build-time information to enable system-specific specialization and improve performance portability across heterogeneous HPC environments.
  - Designed and executed performance evaluation on ARM and x86 clusters, demonstrating **coMtainer**’s effectiveness in optimizing execution efficiency for real-world HPC applications.


- **CWL-Bubble: Extending CWL for Dynamic Scientific Workflows**
  - C. Chen, **H. Chen**, Y. Han, Y. Gu, X. Zhang. *ICCCS'2025*.
  - Introduced CWL-Bubble, an extension to the Common Workflow Language that supports dynamic task generation (loops, recursion) to improve adaptability and execution efficiency in complex scientific workflows while maintaining CWL compatibility.
  - Designed and executed experiments to evaluate CWL-Bubble on complex scientific workflows.


## **Awards:**

- **1st Place Online Winner**, ISC25 Student Cluster Competition
  - Perform optimizations of *OpenMX(Open source package for Material eXplorer)* on [**Bridges-2**](https://www.psc.edu/resources/bridges-2/)
  - Applied compiler tuning, better parallelization with OpenMP/MPI to enhance overall performance, achieving a **2200%** speedup over the baseline.
- **Third Prize**, Compiler System Design Contest, Computer System Development Capability Competition 2024
  - Built a compiler for a subset of the C language from scratch, using a custom framework inspired by LLVM/Clang
  - Implemented key optimizations and generated code targeting the RISC-V architecture, improving execution efficiency
- Scholarship of Outstanding Students, Sun Yat-Sen University
- ÆON Scholarship, ÆON Company 

## **Project:**

- [**YatCC-AI**](http://yatcc-ai.com) \| Full-Stack HPC+AI Education Platform
  - A **LLM**-powered, web-based experience, allowing users to instantly access the **Codespace** via a browser with no setup required.
  - Integrating **HPC** and generative AI to revolutionize compiler education.
  - Technologies: Redis, Flask, Docker, LLVM/Clang,  Kubernetes, LLM


## **Experience:**

- **Teaching Assistant** 
  - DCS290 - Compilation Principle
  - Spring, 2025
  - Member of the YatCC-OL team led by [Yuhao Gu](https://yhgu2000.github.io)
  - Contributed to the development of YatCC-OL, a cloud-based platform that provides seamless browser access to VSCode development environments.
  - Collaborated with team members to troubleshoot and resolve technical issues.
- **Teaching Assistant** 
  - AR0035 - Symphony Art
  - Autumn, 2024
- **Teaching Assistant** 
  - DCS290 - Compilation Principle
  - Spring, 2024
  - Assisted in supplementing documentation for course lab project.
  - Collaborated with TA team members to troubleshoot and resolve technical issues.


## **Relevant Coursework:**

- **YatCC**
  - A modern experimental framework built on the open-source LLVM for compiler construction training and practices compiler construction training and practices
- **YatCPU**
  - An open source RISC-V processor, based on the Chisel hardware design language

## **Skills:**

- Programming Languages: C&C++, Python
- Tools: OpenMP, MPI, Docker, Flask, Redis, Kubernetes, LLVM/Clang


### **Miscellaneous:**

I also play the violin. Though not a professional, I enjoy playing it. Music has inspired me along my journey.
